README.md, before:

# GPIO Server Power Controller

A lightweight Flask app for Raspberry Pi Zero 2 W that triggers server power switch pulses through GPIO17.

## Features

- `POST /on`: 0.5s short pulse (power on)
- `POST /off`: 5s long pulse (force power off)
- Web UI at `/`
- Serialized GPIO access to prevent overlapping pulses
- GPIO forced LOW after each action and during cleanup

## Run

```bash
sudo python3 app.py
```

Optional flags:

```bash
sudo python3 app.py --host 0.0.0.0 --port 5000
```

## Wiring (BC548 low-side switch)

- Raspberry Pi GPIO17 -> 1kΩ resistor -> BC548 base
- Raspberry Pi GND -> BC548 emitter and motherboard GND
- BC548 collector across motherboard `PWR_SW` header pins

> Do not connect Raspberry Pi GPIO directly to motherboard header.


## systemd auto-start (optional)

1. Copy the project to your Pi (example path):

```bash
sudo mkdir -p /opt/gpio-server-power-controller
sudo cp -r . /opt/gpio-server-power-controller/
```

2. Install the included service unit:

```bash
sudo cp deploy/gpio-server-power-controller.service /etc/systemd/system/
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl enable --now gpio-server-power-controller.service
```

3. Check status/logs:

```bash
sudo systemctl status gpio-server-power-controller.service
sudo journalctl -u gpio-server-power-controller.service -f
```

> If your deployment path or user differs, edit `WorkingDirectory`, `ExecStart`, `User`, and `Group` in the unit file.

Commit message:

Add Windows/Linux dual-host GPIO controls

README.md, after:

# GPIO Server Power Controller

A lightweight Flask app for Raspberry Pi Zero 2 W that triggers server power switch pulses through GPIO17.

## Features

- `POST /on`: Windows host short pulse (0.5s)
- `POST /off`: Windows host long pulse (5s)
- `POST /linux/on`: Linux host short pulse (0.5s)
- `POST /linux/off`: Linux host long pulse (5s)
- Web UI at `/` with separate Windows/Linux host controls
- Serialized GPIO access to prevent overlapping pulses
- GPIO forced LOW after each action and during cleanup

## Run

```bash
sudo python3 app.py
```

Optional flags:

```bash
sudo python3 app.py --host 0.0.0.0 --port 5000
```

## Wiring (BC548 low-side switch)

- Raspberry Pi GPIO17 -> 1kΩ resistor -> BC548 base
- Raspberry Pi GND -> BC548 emitter and motherboard GND
- BC548 collector across motherboard `PWR_SW` header pins

> Do not connect Raspberry Pi GPIO directly to motherboard header.


## systemd auto-start (optional)

1. Copy the project to your Pi (example path):

```bash
sudo mkdir -p /opt/gpio-server-power-controller
sudo cp -r . /opt/gpio-server-power-controller/
```

2. Install the included service unit:

```bash
sudo cp deploy/gpio-server-power-controller.service /etc/systemd/system/
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl enable --now gpio-server-power-controller.service
```

3. Check status/logs:

```bash
sudo systemctl status gpio-server-power-controller.service
sudo journalctl -u gpio-server-power-controller.service -f
```

> If your deployment path, user, or GPIO pins differ, edit `WorkingDirectory`, `ExecStart`, `User`, `Group`, `WINDOWS_GPIO_PIN`, and `LINUX_GPIO_PIN` in the unit file.


### Optional GPIO pin overrides

By default the app uses GPIO17 for Windows host and GPIO27 for Linux host. Override with:

```bash
export WINDOWS_GPIO_PIN=17
export LINUX_GPIO_PIN=27
sudo python3 app.py
```
